[THEME MUSIC]
>>LISA GARR: Hi, I'm Lisa Garr,
host of "Gaia Inspirations."
And our topic for
this series that we're
taping at this Celebrate
Your Life Conference
here in Phoenix, Arizona, is
to explore the "I am" meaning.
And joining me is Arielle Ford.
She's a relationship
and manifesting expert
who has taught thousands of
people wabi sabi love, which
is about how to find the
beauty in the imperfection
of our relationships.
Groundbreaking.
Love it.
How are you?
>>ARIELLE FORD: I'm good.
>>LISA: Great.
Great.
So we were talking
about the "I am" meaning
and exploring that
throughout this series.
And it really has taken on
a beautiful life of its own.
In this moment, what is
your "I am" statement?
>>FORD: Oh, wow.
You know, I would have to say
that I am a student of love.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>FORD: That is pretty
much what I'm up to.
I, as you probably remember,
was a first time bride at 44.
>>LISA: Yes.
Yes.
>>FORD: And what I quickly
discovered after I got married
was that I had zero
partnership skills--
that I didn't know
a thing about how
to exist in a relationship
with another human being.
So I committed to becoming
a student of love.
And I'm still in
that commitment.
I've learned a lot,
but there's more to go.
>>LISA: Well, for
living alone for so long
and doing your own thing
and having your own rhythm,
that must have been
quite an adjustment.
>>FORD: Yeah, I was really
good at being the boss.
>>LISA: How did that go?
>>FORD: Yeah, it doesn't work so
well in romantic relationships.
It's not very sexy
and attractive,
being the boss at home.
>>LISA: So how do you soften?
How did you go
about that and being
conscious in your relationship?
>>FORD: Well, we
actually ended up
doing some workshops together
on the masculine and feminine
principles and different
roles in relationship
and understanding that when
I was running my business,
it was really good and smart
to be in my masculine energy.
It was very effective.
But coming home and
not letting go of that
and dropping into
my feminine energy
wasn't fun for either one of us.
So I took up belly dancing.
>>LISA: Oh, that'll do it.
Yeah.
>>FORD: Yeah.
So there was a
transition doing that.
Or I would take
long bubble baths.
Or I would just find a way to
take work head into oh, OK,
now I need to go into girlfriend
mode or wife mode or something
a little bit sexier,
more feminine.
And it took a little
bit of practice.
But now, it's pretty easy.
>>LISA: Well, it's
so interesting.
We have these different
modes as women,
where we do drop into different
hats, really, is what they are.
>>FORD: Yeah.
>>LISA: But you make a conscious
choice to drop into wife mode.
And there's mother mode, and
there is girlfriend mode.
There's all these different
roles that we play.
It's no wonder that women
think that we do it all.
So let's talk about
what a soulmate is.
What is a soulmate?
>>FORD: Oh.
My favorite topic.
Well, I believe that a soulmate
is first and foremost somebody
you can completely
be yourself with,
somebody with whom you share
unconditional love, somebody
that you feel physically
and emotionally safe with.
>>LISA: OK.
>>FORD: And then maybe
most importantly,
when you look into
their eyes, you
have this intense
feeling of being at home.
>>LISA: Yes.
That you are absolutely
safe with that person.
>>FORD: Yeah.
And what most
people don't realize
is that you already have
many soulmates in your life.
So it may be your husband or
your boyfriend or whatever.
But it's also your children,
your siblings, your parents,
your coworkers, your
cats and your dogs,
because that definition
encompasses unconditional love
and feeling at home
with them as well.
So for any of the singles
that are listening,
the good news is you already
have a lot of soulmates.
And the fastest way
to have romantic love
is to put your energy and
attention and appreciation
on all the love that
you already have,
because that makes you
magnetic to romantic love.
>>LISA: So yes, the
answer to that is yes,
you can have multiple
soulmates, even if you're dating
and you've felt that one
person was it for a while.
>>FORD: Right.
>>LISA: And then all of a
sudden, that spark goes away,
but you thought that
was your soulmate.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>FORD: Well, it
doesn't mean that they
weren't your soulmate.
>>LISA: OK.
>>FORD: But they may not
be your best life partner.
OK.
>>LISA: What's the difference?
>>FORD: So there's
this myth out there
that we each only get one
big love in a lifetime.
>>LISA: Right.
>>FORD: It's total BS.
It's not true at all, OK?
>>LISA: Right.
>>FORD: There are thousands
of potential soulmates
for all of us.
OK?
So that's the first
thing to know.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>FORD: But a great relationship
is more than just that heart
connection or more
than just chemistry.
It's compatibility.
It's connection.
It's communication.
And most importantly, it's a
shared vision for the future.
OK?
So let's say you know
that you want to be a mom.
You want to give birth and
have your own children.
And you hook up with some
guy who's just fabulous,
but he's already had kids.
They're grown, they're
out of the house.
He's done with kids.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>FORD: Is he your soulmate?
Yes.
Is he your life partner?
No.
>>LISA: Good way of
showing the difference.
>>FORD: Yeah.
>>LISA: No, that's a great way.
So what about these
services, dating
services, where you have people
connecting in different ways?
And there's so many
of them, all the way
from the match.com
all the way to Tinder.
>>FORD: Yeah.
Well, I actually
think online dating is
the best way to go these days.
I mean, it's the greatest
shopping mall in the world,
because you can be really
specific about what
your heart traits and
needs and desires are.
And it's a great
sorting process.
Now, I actually have friends
that met through Tinder--
>>LISA: You did?
>>FORD: --and are
married and have children
and are very happy.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>FORD: And I know the Tinder
reputation is something else.
So you have to really
decide what's right for you.
But I suggest
anybody who is dead
serious on getting married
or finding a long term
relationship explore
online dating.
And I can hear people screaming
already, oh, I tried it.
It doesn't work for
me, blah, blah, blah.
Have you ever gone to a
restaurant had a bad meal?
>>LISA: Yes.
>>FORD: OK.
Did you quit eating
because you had a bad meal?
>>LISA: No, unfortunately.
>>FORD: No.
So you know need to put
on your big girl panties
and understand that most of the
dates you have through online
dating aren't gonna be it.
They're not gonna be fun.
It's not gonna be wonderful.
But if you keep doing
it, eventually, you
will meet the one.
>>LISA: Well, there's
this idea, though,
that there's always
another one out there.
There's always another
one out there, because
of the nature of online dating.
So how do you know
that's the one?
>>FORD: Well, there's a
couple of different ways.
So most of the
soulmate couples I've
interviewed, when I
asked them, how and when
did you know-- so the when
'part' is very different.
Some people know instantly.
Some people didn't know till
after they were married.
OK?
But they always
were able to say,
you know what, there was just
this level of compatibility,
this level of connection,
where I knew I could
have a great life with them.
There was just enough
common stuff there.
So whether they felt it in every
cell in their body-- you know,
yes, Lisa, you're the one--
>>LISA: Right.
>>FORD: Or whether there
was just enough goodness
there that they went for
it-- you have to just make
that determination.
And for most people, if they
have that heart connection
and there's the shared vision
for the future connection,
that's a lot.
>>LISA: So you wrote a
book about soulmates.
What is the biggest complaint
that people have when
they're in the relationship?
We've covered the dating
part a little bit.
But this could go both ways.
>>FORD: Well, I think, for
women-- it's different for men.
But for women, they go in
with this fantasy of happily
ever after.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>FORD: OK?
I think "happily ever after" are
the three most dangerous words
in the English
language for women,
because the truth is,
when with your soulmate,
it's not going to
be easy every day.
There are going to be
moments, days, weeks, maybe
even months when you don't
like your soulmate very much.
You may even hate them at times.
And that's normal.
And that's what
people don't get.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>FORD: You know, relationships
are a growth process.
And what a lot of people
don't get about soulmates
is that it's the
deepest level of healing
you can possibly have.
So if you say you're a
spiritual person, if you
say you're really
working on yourself, then
more than anything,
you need a soulmate,
because all your stuff
will come up to get healed.
>>LISA: Come up--
absolutely, absolutely.
Take a look here at this
video where Arielle's
talking about a soulmate.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>FORD: The word "soulmate"
is one of those terms
that almost everybody
you come in contact with
will have a different
definition for.
But my definition
of a soulmate is
that it's somebody with whom you
have a really deep and profound
connection.
It's someone you can
completely be yourself
with, someone with whom you
share unconditional love.
And when you look
into their eyes,
you have the experience
of being home.
But what a lot of
people don't know
is a soulmate is
also someone who's
going to be your
greatest teacher, someone
with whom you're going to share
an amazing growth, which means
that there are going to be days
when there's a lot of conflict.
They're going to have
the owner's manual to how
to push all your buttons.
But the good news is,
this is really normal.
So a soulmate is
someone that is going
to be your lover, your
best friend, someone
to share your life with,
someone to love and grow with.
And what I do know for
sure is that everybody
has the possibility
of having a soulmate.
>>LISA: OK.
So I'm in a relationship, and
I'm learning how to relate,
and I'm trying to figure
out where my shortfalls are
and his shortfalls are.
And you talk about this
in "Wabi Sabi Love."
What is wabi sabi?
>>FORD: OK.
So what the heck's wabi sabi?
Wabi sabi is this ancient
Japanese aesthetic
that honors all things that
are old, worn, imperfect,
and impermanent.
And it seeks to find beauty
and perfection in imperfection.
So imagine that we've got
this big vase, a Ming vase,
and it's got a long crooked
crack down the middle of it.
The Japanese would
take this broken vase,
they'd put it on a
pedestal, and then
they would shine a
spotlight on the crack.
So wabi sabi love
is about learning
to honor and love the
cracks in yourself
and the cracks in your mate.
And the fastest way I
can demonstrate this
is to tell you a story.
So I have these friends,
Jerry and Diane.
And Jerry's a good 30
years older than Diane.
And they've been
together over 20 years.
And Jerry has an addiction.
Jerry is addicted to
poppy seed bagels.
And every single morning,
he goes in the kitchen,
he slices his poppyseed bagel,
and all the little black seeds
go all over Diane's
white tile floor.
Then he toasts the
bagel, and then he
walks around the kitchen
eating the bagel,
dropping even more poppy seeds.
Now, sometimes,
later, Diane gets up,
and every morning's the same.
She walks into the kitchen,
she wets a paper towel,
she gets on her hands
and knees, and she wipes
up all the little black seeds.
Now, one morning, she was
in a really grouchy mood.
And as she was wiping up the
seeds, she had this thought.
What would it take for me to
never have to do this again?
And that was followed
by the thought,
oh, that would mean
Jerry's no longer with me.
And she started to cry.
And from that day
on, every morning
as she wiped up the
little black seeds,
her heart would fill with
love, because the seeds now
meant she had another
day to spend with Jerry.
>>LISA: You would think
she would have just bought
cinnamon raisin bagels.
>>FORD: Right?
But the story, the point
of this whole thing,
is that Jerry didn't change.
His behavior didn't change.
>>LISA: She did.
>>FORD: She had a
shift in perception.
She went from
annoyed to enjoyed.
>>LISA: And that's
a great way to be
able to do things that
are like that, that
are minor annoyances, with the
toothpaste and the toilet seat
up.
But what about the
big stuff, Arielle?
What about the bills or the
child raising differences?
>>FORD: Yeah.
Those are the big things.
And so there's a really
fabulous researcher
named Dr. John Gottman at
the University of Washington
who's the world's leading
marriage researcher.
And what he's discovered
is that every couple--
not some-- every couple
has a minimum of nine
irreconcilable differences.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>FORD: These are things on
which you will never agree.
>>LISA: Nine.
>>FORD: That's why,
in every couple,
there's usually a
spender and a saver.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>FORD: God put us
together this way.
Why?
So we could learn to love
and respect each other
in spite of our differences, so
we could learn to communicate.
So that happened in my marriage.
I came from a relatively
poor background.
My husband came from a
very affluent background.
So I came in with all my
poverty consciousness.
And he came in
with his propensity
to only shop and buy Armani.
And then we pooled
all our money.
And I'm like, freaking
out all the time.
And what I had to
learn to do was
to be very vulnerable and
very authentic with him
and say to him, you know,
I really do trust you,
and I'm uncomfortable with
this level of spending.
And then as I got to know him
better-- because he had never
shopped a sale in his
life-- it's like, well,
just try it once, you know?
He now shops sales,
and he buys me Armani.
So we eventually worked it out.
But there are ways to do it.
And the one thing I want
to caution everybody
about-- here's where wabi
sabi love doesn't work.
So if there is bad behavior,
abuse, or addiction,
you cannot wabi sabi
your way out of that.
>>LISA: OK.
>>FORD: That's when you
need professional help.
If there's betrayal, if
there's a big trust that's
been broken-- but for the
day to day minor annoyances,
like how many times
do I have to tell
you to take out the garbage?
>>LISA: Right.
>>FORD: That can be handled.
That can be fixed.
>>LISA: Well, you
mentioned money, though.
Is money ever a deal breaker?
Because obviously,
there's always
going to be a difference of
income in a relationship.
No one's ever going to make the
exact same money, or sometimes,
one does earn money
and one doesn't.
>>FORD: Well, that's because
we live in a culture that
only values money.
>>LISA: OK.
Talk about that.
>>FORD: And a lot of people come
into a relationship thinking it
needs to be 50/50,
which is the sure way
to kill the relationship.
You need to give 100%.
He needs to give 100%.
And it doesn't really
matter who's earning what.
What is everybody giving?
So let's say you were
100% of the money,
but he's doing the
grocery shopping
and taking care of the cars
and driving the kid to school
and is contributing
in all those ways.
Why are you measuring
his value by money?
And I'm speaking about
women specifically,
because most of my friends
out-earn their husbands.
>>LISA: There has been a shift.
>>FORD: There's
been a big shift.
>>LISA: So but what--
do you sit down
with a pro and con
list and a ledger?
I mean, how do you--
>>FORD: No, I
think you just have
to really have the attitude.
What is the value of
this relationship?
How do I feel when
I'm with this man?
Do I feel loved,
cherished, adored?
Is he my safe place to land?
Am I protected?
Do we have this really
fun life together?
And if that's so, this is who
you want to spend your life,
then where the money flows in
from isn't really important.
What's important is that you
don't measure it by well,
he should be earning more money.
He's the guy.
Well, yeah, in the '50s.
>>LISA: Yes.
Yes.
>>FORD: But you know, we're
a long way from there.
>>LISA: Definitely
changing times.
>>FORD: Yeah.
>>LISA: Well, take a
look here at Arielle
talking about wabi sabi love.
>>FORD: So there's a woman
at the University of Buffalo
named Dr. Sandra Murray.
And she did studies on couples
who wear rose-colored glasses.
And what she found
is that couples who
wear rose-colored
glasses-- I now
call them wabi sabi glasses--
is that they have happier,
more satisfying relationships.
And she calls it the
Pygmalion effect,
because it's the
phenomenon where
when you lift raise your level
of expectation for someone,
they rise to meet that level.
You and I would probably call
it a self-fulfilling prophecy.
And what happens when you wear
the rose-colored glasses is
you begin to look for what's
right in the relationship
instead of what's wrong.
Does it make sense?
Right?
How many of us are
looking for what's wrong
instead of what's right?
So I needed a lot of this, me
with the no partnership skills.
So one of the things that
really drove me nuts about Brian
happened in the bathroom.
I would go in the bathroom
to brush my teeth,
and I would squeeze--
I'm a bottom squeezer.
Any bottom squeezers here?
Right?
Squeeze from the
bottom, roll it up nice.
My husband, he's a mangled
from the middle guy, right?
[LAUGHTER]
So every morning
for years, I would
look at my mangled
tube of toothpaste.
And I had this bad feeling
in the pit of my stomach.
Like, why can't he do it my way?
Why can't he do
it the right way?
So I got out my
rose-colored glasses,
and I put the tube of
toothpaste in my hand.
And I thought, what's
good about this?
Nothing.
[LAUGHTER]
You know?
It's got to be something.
And then it came to me.
Ready?
Thank god I married a man
who brushes his teeth.
[LAUGHTER]
Right?
[APPLAUSE]
Yeah, so now I know, as
we grow old together,
he's going to have
all his teeth.
Wabi sabi love-- it's
a shift in perception.
>>LISA: So we've talked
about being single.
We've talked about if
you're in a relationship
and balancing out the
minor differences.
But what if you're in a
long term relationship,
and at this point, you're not
really in the relationship
anymore?
You've become roommates.
Have you heard this?
>>FORD: Yes, I have.
And so one of the fastest
ways to reignite and restart
your relationship
is to do something
that's life threatening.
Do something life
threatening together.
So for instance,
rollercoasters, bungee jumping,
zip line, scary movies.
>>LISA: Interesting.
>>FORD: The reason for this is
that when you-- and it doesn't
have to be-- I don't mean like
you're really going to die,
but you think
you're going to die.
It's something
you're both afraid
to do that you do together.
And when you have this shared
experience and this shared
adrenaline rush, it
triggers the brain chemistry
that had you fall in
love in the first place,
because all the feelings you
had 20 or 30 years ago, that's
still in there for most people--
not for everybody, but for most
people.
So that's the first
thing I would do.
>>LISA: That is a
great recommendation.
My husband and I
met mountain biking.
And that is one of our
favorite things to do together,
is to go mountain
biking together.
We have great talks.
We have meetings.
And we do so well in that space.
That is a great point.
>>FORD: And people
forget to do it.
So have you drifted
into this sort
of it's just good enough zone?
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>FORD: You have, but
you can change it.
And this is where personal
responsibility comes in.
And women are
often thinking, why
do I have to do all the work?
It's like, do you want to
fight for your marriage or not?
This is not the kind of
thing guys think about.
They're OK with
just good enough.
All right?
But you're not.
So since you're the
one who's antsy,
there are things you can do.
And then all this is in
my new book called "Turn
Your Mate Into Your Soulmate."
There are actually
16 exercises that you
can do to respark the flame.
But the first thing
you need to understand
is that if you're starting
to think, well, maybe
the grass is greener
somewhere else,
here's what you need to know.
You already know that 50% of
first marriages end in divorce.
What you probably don't
know is 63% of second
and 74% of third
marriages end in divorce.
>>LISA: OK.
>>FORD: So there's
a lot of good reason
to actually put in some energy
and some time and some money
into making things change.
And he doesn't have to do it.
You could actually start
things and not even tell him
what you're up to, and
things will automatically
begin to change.
>>LISA: Is this because--
what you're describing here
is that men are very simple
in that they really like just
being in a relationship, and
that women are very complicated
with all the type A-ness
of a relationship.
>>FORD: Well, we're back to
the rose-colored glasses thing,
because--
>>LISA: Why is that?
>>FORD: --quite often,
women are looking
for what's wrong instead of
looking for what's right.
>>LISA: Isn't that true, men?
>>FORD: And the other thing
is that they don't understand
is that most men really,
at the very bottom line,
can only be happy
if you're happy.
They want you to be happy.
And you could be thinking,
I tell him all the time
what I need for him to
do for me to be happy.
But the truth is,
when you're doing it
in a nasty tone of
voice or you're nagging
or you're yelling, he
literally can't hear you.
His brain doesn't
function like our brain.
He's not listening.
So in "Turn Your Mate
Into Your Soulmate,"
I give you scripts on how
to actually speak in a way
that he can hear
and he'll respond.
These are test-proven--
>>LISA: Well, give
us an example,
because I don't want
to dumb down men here.
I wanna--
>>FORD: Well, they're not dumb.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>FORD: It's the women
who aren't smart enough
to speak into their listening.
>>LISA: OK.
>>FORD: OK.
So we're doing what we
watched our mothers do.
So we're nagging and yelling
and screaming and complaining
and whining and
bitching and moaning,
which, if you've been
doing it for 20 years,
you know is not effective.
But you've never bothered
to learn how to do it.
So let's just say
your complaint is
his job is to take out the
garbage on Sunday nights.
But you always
have to remind him
and you're tired
of reminding him.
All you have to do
is the next time--
wait for him to do it on his
own, and then when he comes in,
give him the sexiest hug ever
and say, you are my hero.
I am so grateful you
took out the garbage.
And here's why.
Whenever I have to touch
that thing, it's so dirty
and it's so smelly and it's
so icky, I just feel awful.
But when you do this for me,
I get to feel like a queen.
Thank you.
I love you.
Now, is he gonna forget to
take out the garbage next week?
>>LISA: No.
>>FORD: Probably not, because he
just had this big win with you.
>>LISA: But the
operative thing is
that you said, wait
for him to take out
the garbage on his own.
>>FORD: Yeah.
>>LISA: You said that.
>>FORD: Yeah, and
it may be a while.
It may be till it's--
but you have to wait.
Guys do not like to
be told what to do.
>>LISA: This is true.
>>FORD: They don't like
it-- none of them, even
the most conscious ones.
But if you tell
them what it's going
to provide for you,
what it's going to do,
and what that actually means
and your level of happiness,
which gives him joy, you're
going to get a better response.
So that's just one
really small example.
>>LISA: But that's great,
because I don't think anyone
likes to be told what to do.
>>FORD: No.
>>LISA: I mean, you go
through that when you're out
of childhood, then no.
>>FORD: Because then,
you become their mother.
>>LISA: Right.
Right.
>>FORD: Right?
And their mother
told them what to do.
So they're not like, oh,
here's Lisa, my beautiful wife.
It's like, oh, it's
that mom voice.
>>LISA: Right.
OK.
So those are great fixes.
But what if you are
into years and years
and years of resentment or
not addressing these issues?
>>FORD: Yeah.
>>LISA: How do you start?
>>FORD: You know, you
just start with the truth,
from a really vulnerable place.
There's something I really
need to share with you.
And I'm scared to death to say
it, because I love you so much
and I don't want to hurt you
and I don't want to hurt me.
But I just need to
tell you A, B, and C.
So you're not blaming.
You're not shaming.
It's coming from an "I" place.
You know, when you
do such and such,
I know you don't mean
to hurt my feelings,
but every time you say A, B,
and C, this is how I feel.
And I know you would
never want to hurt me,
but I've been too
scared to tell you.
Now, how did-- there's no
defensiveness needed there.
>>LISA: No.
And it's also you took that
along on your own self.
>>FORD: Yeah.
>>LISA: This is how I feel.
This is what I want to tell you.
This is how I'm
experiencing this.
>>FORD: And then
only one thing a day.
Don't pile it on.
Not like, here's the 20 years
of things I haven't told you.
>>LISA: But you took
responsibility--
what you said about taking
personal responsibility
is how you feel.
>>FORD: Yes.
>>LISA: And then if
somebody says to you, well,
what-- do you have to do
that without expectation,
by the way?
For them to say, I'm sorry?
>>FORD: You know,
I think expectation
gets in the way of things.
>>LISA: I think so too.
>>FORD: Really, you just
want to convey the truth.
And the thing you
need to remember
is that your husband didn't
wake up this morning thinking,
how can I make Lisa crazy today?
>>LISA: Right.
Right.
>>FORD: OK?
Nobody wakes up
like that, yet we
live like they're doing
everything on purpose.
And they're not.
>>LISA: Mmhm.
All right.
Let's take a look here
at Arielle talking
about those statistics,
and why it's
important to turn your
mate into your soulmate
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>FORD: Let me give you
one really good reason why
you want to turn your
mate into your soulmate.
So we all know that 50% of
first marriages end in divorce.
But what you may not know is
that 67% of second marriages
and 74% of third
marriages end in divorce.
And it doesn't have
to be that way.
In "Turn Your Mate
Into Your Soulmate,"
I give you 16 fun,
easy, and simple things
that you can do to
reignite passion,
to get your relationship
back on track,
to learn how to
talk to each other
in a way that's really loving
and kind and effective.
And it's not that hard.
It just requires that
somebody take the initiative.
And that somebody may be you.
And it's OK.
You don't have to
develop an attitude.
Well, why do I have
to do all the work?
It's really not work.
It's just a shift in perception.
Just try a few of these things.
Do something a little different.
And what will happen will
be an amazing, unbelievable,
unimaginable transformation that
creates the love of a lifetime.
>>LISA: So why do you think
those divorce statistics are
so high in the second
and the third marriages?
Because you're carrying
over the same problems?
>>FORD: Yes, because
the only thing
that's constant in all
those marriages is you.
So if you haven't done
the deeper inner work,
if you haven't
changed, if you haven't
gotten to the root of your
problems, your patterns,
you're just going to recreate
the same situations over
and over and over again.
So it may look like
he's the problem.
>>LISA: Uh-huh.
>>FORD: But everybody comes
in with their stuff, you know?
And everybody's got to be
responsible for working
through stuff.
So that's why I think
the statistics just
get worse as you marry more.
>>LISA: Well, when you
were single for 44 years,
did you ever think that
you would just stay single?
Or did you eventually want
to find that soulmate?
>>FORD: I actually knew
in my heart that some day,
I would get married.
But I didn't put
a lot of attention
on it, because I was so
busy building my business.
And I was having so
much fun doing it.
And I was really having fun
complaining about my love life,
you know?
I was my story.
I had this story.
Oh, I'm always with
these super toads.
And they're always this
and they're always that.
But the truth was-- is that
I was commitment phobic.
You know?
So until I started
to work on that
and realize that that was
my issue, that I was really
afraid of love-- I
needed to transform me
before I was ready to welcome
in what I call big love.
>>LISA: How did you realize
that you were commitment phobic?
>>FORD: A friend of mine
said it to me one day.
You know?
It's like, you're always
blaming those guys.
You're the one with the issue.
And I knew enough about popular
psychology and self-help.
It was like, oh, that
hurt, but that's true.
>>LISA: And then
when you realized
that, were you then
open to receiving
a relationship in your life?
>>FORD: I was.
I worked on it on
multiple levels.
I went to therapy.
I did this thing called
the Hoffman process, which
really made a difference.
And then I was also consciously
manifesting a soulmate.
But what I saw was that because
every guy I had dated had
a similar sort of
demographic to him--
they were all sort of captain
of the universe types--
>>LISA: Oh, OK.
>>FORD: I realized that
what my soul was calling for
was somebody who was
really generous, not
so much with their wallet,
but with their love
and appreciation and
affection and attention.
That's what I needed.
I wanted to be the center
of somebody's universe
instead of always
complaining about Mr. X, who
never had enough time for me.
>>LISA: But you
also were allowing
yourself to be the center
of somebody's universe.
>>FORD: For the first time.
>>LISA: And ultimately,
that's what men want to do,
is that they do want to protect.
They do want to take care of.
And I think the key
in any relationship
is knowing that you've
got each other's backs.
>>FORD: Right.
>>LISA: It's huge.
>>FORD: And the thing--
I was so independent
that for me, having someone
take care of me made me needy.
And I actually had
to embrace the fact
that there was this Arielle
part that was needy.
It was needy for
love and attention.
And once I was able to
get comfortable with that,
now, I'm just sort
of a sponge for it.
>>LISA: All right.
So let's take this from
the male perspective.
>>FORD: Yeah.
>>LISA: How would you
coach a man, a husband,
into softening a
wife who is still
in this strong very
survival perspective?
>>FORD: You know,
what Brian always
did with me is that he
would always tell me,
I'm here for you,
I'm your safe place
to land, we're here to heal
each other, my reason for living
is you.
And when you hear that
day after day after day
and you get all these hugs
and kisses and affection,
eventually, you
start to believe it.
You know, I didn't believe
it the first couple years.
It's like, oh, he's just
saying the right thing.
But eventually, because
he was so consistent,
I got to see that it was true.
Now, the other
flip side of it was
he was never afraid of my
power or my independence.
>>LISA: True.
>>FORD: Ever.
You know?
And he actually
likes that about me,
because he had a
very strong mother.
>>LISA: Well, it seems like
he's very emotionally available.
>>FORD: Yes.
>>LISA: And I know Brian, and
he is a very conscious man.
But in the case where there
is pain in a relationship,
I think that both the
male and the female
want to find a resolution,
want to find solution.
And you offer a lot
of those in your book.
It makes so much sense, Arielle.
What you have to say
makes so much sense.
>>FORD: Well, I had to learn
it for my own survival.
>>LISA: Uh-huh.
>>FORD: And then I
road tested all of it.
So I know that it works.
There's actually 16 exercises
in "Turn Your Mate Into
Your Soulmate"
that you can begin
to use the day you get the book
that'll make amazing changes.
>>LISA: Fantastic.
Thank you so much for
offering solutions.
I so appreciate.
>>FORD: Oh, thank you.
>>LISA: And if you would like to
watch a replay of my interview
with Arielle Ford, you
can go to gaia.com.
And until next time, I
invite you to stay inspired.